In this section, we'll look at how we can create,
build and execute c++ programs
using only a simple editor in the command line.
All we need on our system is a simple text editor.
It's important to note that word processors such as Microsoft
Word and Apple Pages are not usually used to enter program code.
Instead, we use basic text editors or programmer text editors.
these types of editors are much simpler than integrated development environments.
We also need an installed c++ compiler
like GCC or mingw on windows
and Apple's command line compilers on mac.
That's it.
At this point, we can create the c++ program using the text editor
and compile and run it by typing commands into the command line.
This may sound intimidating at first but it's actually quite easy and efficient.
That said, this is a workflow that's more commonly seen with experienced developers.
However, you may wish to consider this approach if you find the IDEs too complex
or too difficult to understand.
You might also consider this approach if your computer hardware resources
are insufficient to run an IDE.
In any case, this is another option that you may use.
In the next several videos, I'll show you how to edit,
build and execute c++ programs
using only the command line in a simple editor.
There will be separate videos for windows,
macs and ubuntu Linux for your reference.